Bard:

The controversy surrounding Nissan's new purchase agreement terms (of service) centers on a number of provisions that consumers and consumer advocates say are unfair and potentially illegal.

One of the most controversial provisions is a clause that gives Nissan the right to remotely access and control a customer's vehicle without their consent. This could allow Nissan to disable features, track the vehicle's location, or even remotely shut it down.

Another controversial provision is a clause that allows Nissan to collect and use data from the vehicle's sensors and cameras without the customer's consent. This data could include information about the customer's driving habits, location, and even their conversations inside the vehicle.

Consumer advocates argue that these provisions are unfair because they give Nissan too much control over the customer's vehicle and data. They also argue that the provisions are potentially illegal because they violate consumer privacy laws.

Nissan has defended its new purchase agreement terms, arguing that they are necessary to protect its intellectual property and to provide customers with the best possible service. However, consumer advocates have called on Nissan to revise the terms to make them more fair and transparent.

The controversy surrounding Nissan's new purchase agreement terms is likely to continue as consumers and consumer advocates push for Nissan to make changes. It is possible that the controversy could lead to legal action against Nissan, or even to changes in consumer protection laws.

In addition to the above, here are some other specific concerns that have been raised about Nissan's new purchase agreement terms:

* The terms give Nissan the right to unilaterally change the terms of the agreement at any time.
* The terms make it difficult for customers to cancel their agreements.
* The terms give Nissan immunity from liability for any damages caused by the vehicle or its software.

Consumer advocates argue that these provisions are unfair and could lead to consumers being taken advantage of. They are calling on Nissan to revise the terms to make them more fair and transparent.

It is important to note that Nissan's new purchase agreement terms are still in their early stages, and it is possible that the company will make changes in response to the concerns that have been raised. However, it is also possible that the controversy will continue, and that Nissan will face legal action or regulatory scrutiny.
