I wanted to give it more stars but...

*** SPOILER ALERT ***

Fine performances by Cillian Murphy (J. Robert Oppenheimer), Matt Damon (General Leslie Groves) , and Robert Downey JR. (Lewis Strauss), whom later is revealed as the film's arch-antagonist. I've been a fan of Cillian Murphy since his 2007 film Sunshine. And I've just recently discovered his full Irish name is pronounced Kil-ee-un Mur-fee, which was a nice surprise, and would not at all be surprised if he received an Oscar nom and even an Oscar for this role. Because he brings a profound humanity to the character. 

Cillian's character is not an enigma with dozens of layers which must be peeled away in order to reach the underlying humanity which powers him. What you see is what you get; unlike with Robert Downey's character, Lewis Strauss -- The man is so kind and self-effacing on the surface that you almost never realize the hardened unforgiving inner nature he keeps hidden away if you were not to bear witness of this yourself. Robert Downey Jr. definitely deserves an Oscar nom for his nearly perfect portrayal of such a complex individual. 

Emily Blunt (his alcoholic wife, Kitty Oppenheimer) also has an incredibly strong performance overall in the film, with the exception of her performance in the final act when she testifies in Robert Oppenheimer's defense for his not actually being a Communist. Deep in the throws of alcoholism in this scene she has a profound three minutes of clarity and expounds a coherent well-thought out treatise -- dismissing the premise for  questioning of her husband's motives. This was intended to be a crowd pleaser. But... This comes across to me as very nearly psychotic because there is almost no visible presence of the woman we've watched the entire first two and a half hours of the film. Erm. Yikes. Her best scene without any doubt is after Robert Oppenheimer flees to the isolation of the woods after the death of his mistress. Emily Blunt pursues and beckons him to be strong. For his family and his country. Get yourself together. In this moment she is so strong. Hey, Mr. Nolan, more of these scenes please.

I've always wanted to know what it feels like to be given the power of Prometheus. To be given the ability to single-handedly bless your nation with the strength to vanquish anyone that opposed them for the remainder of yours and your children's lives... And the fact that even a mere demonstration of a weapon of such destructive power could irreversibly and eventually burn away the troposphere protecting humanity to the point to this day its true effects are classified; and yet powerful enough a demonstration--every other nation would strive for the next ninety-nine years to attain the knowledge of being able to build and wield such a weapon...

To this day, taxpayers are blamed, and told the process is reversible. In reality it is BS. Oppenheimer knew it the day he talked to Einstein while he skipped stones across the pond on the Strauss university campus: A nation will use whatever is in their arsenal.